Improve README (#142)
VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper: README.md

![logo_ash_horizontal@4x](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25779550/135059025-4cfade5b-bfcb-47e8-872f-8a3d78ce0c25.png)

Serialization toolbox for Akka messages, events and persistent state that helps achieve compile-time guarantee on
serializability. There're some Akka serialization caveats this tool can help with:

> 1. [Missing serialization binding](#missing-serialization-binding)

Reviewer: Yeah, makes more sense to organize the README around **caveats**, just as in the sphere.it preso

> 2. [Inconsistent persistent data](#inconsistent-persistent-data)

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
2. [Incompatibility of persistent data](#...)
```
❓

  .enablePlugins(AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin)
```

## Missing serialization binding

> To serialize message, state or event in Akka, Scala trait needs to be defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To serialize message, persistent state or event in Akka, Scala trait needs to be defined:
```

As _state_ alone is a bit unclear/imprecise (I wouldn't think of akka-persistence first)

Author: Definitely. It's more meaningful. I would apply this suggestion.

```scala
package org
trait MySer
```

Also, we need to define a serializer for the Akka in the Scala configuration file:

```scala
akka.actor {
  serializers {
    jackson-json = "akka.serialization.jackson.JacksonJsonSerializer"
  }
  serialization-bindings {
    "org.MySer" = jackson-json
  }
}
```

> The problem occurs if we forget to use created serializer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem occurs if we forget to extend a class with the base trait bound to the serializer:
```

  .enablePlugins(AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin)
```

## Missing serialization binding

To serialize message, persistent state or event in Akka, Scala trait needs to be defined:

```scala
package org
trait MySer
```

> Also, a serializer needs to be defined for Akka in Scala configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, a serializer needs to be bound to this trait in a configuration file:
```

Reviewer: (HOCON-formatted config files aren't specific to Scala after all, their API is Java-compatible)

```scala
akka.actor {
  serializers {
    jackson-json = "akka.serialization.jackson.JacksonJsonSerializer"
  }
  serialization-bindings {
    "org.MySer" = jackson-json
  }
}
```

The problem occurs if a class is not extended with the base trait bound to the serializer:

```scala
trait MySer
case class MyMessage() // extends MySer
```

`akka-serialization-helper` to the rescue! It detects messages, events and persistent states, and checks whether they
extend the given base trait and report an error when they don't. This ensures that the specified serializer is

> used by Akka and protects against accidental use of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used by Akka and protects against an unintended fallback to
```

trait MySer
```

> Also, a serializer needs to be defined for the Akka in the Scala configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, a serializer needs to be defined for Akka in Scala configuration file:
```

Reviewer: Generally, no need to precede proper names with _the_ article in English

}
```

The problem occurs if a class is not extended with the base trait bound to the serializer:

```scala
trait MySer
case class MyMessage() // extends MySer
```

> To solve that this plugin can be used. It detects messages, events and persistent states, and checks whether they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
akka-serialization-helper to the rescue! It detects messages, events and persistent states, and checks whether they
```

And results in a compile error, preventing non-runtime-safe code from being executed:
```
test0.scala:7: error: org.random.project.BehaviorTest.Command is used as Akka message
but does not extend a trait annotated with org.virtuslab.ash.annotation.SerializabilityTrait.
Passing an object of class NOT extending SerializabilityTrait as a message may cause Akka to
fall back to Java serialization during runtime.

  def method(msg: Command): Behavior[Command] = ???
                            ^
test0.scala:6: error: Make sure this type is itself annotated, or extends a type annotated
with  @org.virtuslab.ash.annotation.SerializabilityTrait.
  sealed trait Command extends MySerializable
               ^
```

The compiler plugin only checks the classes in the sbt modules where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is explicitly enabled.

> It may happen that your base trait (like `MySerializable` in the example) may live in an sbt module like `core` where you do **not** want to enable the plugin

Reviewer: No need for double `may` (`may happen ... may live`), pls revert the change

(e.g. for compilation performance reasons).

> You still need to reference `org.virtuslab.ash.SerializabilityTrait` to annotate `MySerializable`, however.

Reviewer: The usage of `you` and `we` is inconsistent across the text.

I'd prefer using impersonal form wherever natural, or `you` as the second choice; refrain from using `we` as it sounds somewhat... idk, immature (?) in technical writing

Reviewer: (esp. that it's unclear to whom `we` refers: _we the authors_? _we = the author + the reader_?)

The compiler plugin only checks the classes in the sbt modules where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is explicitly enabled.

> It may happen that the base trait (like `MySerializable` in the example) lives in a sbt module like `core` where the plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may happen that the base trait (like `MySerializable` in the example) lives in an sbt module like `core` where the plugin
```
since it's `es-bee-tee` in pronunciation

should **not** be enabled (e.g. for compilation performance reasons).

> However, `MySerializable` needs to be annotated with a `org.virtuslab.ash.SerializabilityTrait`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, `MySerializable` needs to be annotated with `org.virtuslab.ash.SerializabilityTrait`.
```
Again, article should not precede a proper name

It may happen that the base trait (like `MySerializable` in the example) lives in a sbt module like `core` where the plugin
should **not** be enabled (e.g. for compilation performance reasons).
However, `MySerializable` needs to be annotated with a `org.virtuslab.ash.SerializabilityTrait`.
In order to have access to the `SerializabilityTrait` annotation without enabling the entire suite of compiler plugins,

> add `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin.annotation` to `libraryDependencies`:

Reviewer: Imperative is okay! probably even better than passive voice, which sometimes sounds too formal/stiff

Reviewer: So... pls revert here

  .settings(libraryDependencies += AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin.annotation)
```

## Incompatibility of persistent data

> ![Typical tragic story](docs/typical-tragic-story.png "Typical tragic story")

Reviewer: Nitpick: doesn't the text in `[...]` already serve as alt-text? is the text in `"..."` also needed?

> A typical problem we could have with persistence is when we persisted some data that is not compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical problem we could have with persistence is when the already persisted data is not compatible
```

> with a new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the schemas defined in a new version of the application.
```

## Incompatibility of persistent data

![Typical tragic story](docs/typical-tragic-story.png)

A typical problem with a persistence is when the already persisted data is not compatible
with the schemas defined in a new version of the application.

> To solve this a mix of a compiler plugin and a sbt task for dumping schema can be used for dumping schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this, a mix of a compiler plugin and an sbt task can be used for dumping schema
```

## Jackson Akka Serializer

Using Jackson Serializer for Akka-persistence is also one of the pitfalls and this
plugin provides an alternative by using a serializer that uses Circe.

Dangerous code for Jackson:

```scala
case class Message(animal: Animal) extends MySer

sealed trait Animal

final case class Lion(name: String) extends Animal
final case class Tiger(name: String) extends Animal
```

We need to add a lot of Jackson annotations to run this code:

```scala
case class Message(animal: Animal) extends MultiDocPrintService

@JsonTypeInfo(use = JsonTypeInfo.Id.NAME, property = "type")
@JsonSubTypes(
  Array(
    new JsonSubTypes.Type(value = classOf[Lion], name = "lion"),
    new JsonSubTypes.Type(value = classOf[Tiger], name = "tiger")))
sealed trait Animal

final case class Lion(name: String) extends Animal
final case class Tiger(name: String) extends Animal

```

Also if we define object:
```scala
case object Tick
```

There will not be exceptions during serialization but Jackson will create
another instance of Tick instead of restoring Singleton.

```scala
actorRef ! Tick

// Inside the actor:
def receive = {
  case Tick => // this won't get matched

> }// message will be unhandled

Reviewer: Nitpick:
```suggestion
} // message will be unhandled
```

  - org.random.project.Data
```

A `diff` command can be used to check the difference between the version of a schema from `develop`/`main` branch and the
version from the current commit.

![Easy to diff](docs/easy-to-diff.png)

## Jackson Akka Serializer

> Using Jackson Serializer for Akka-persistence is also one of the pitfalls and this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Jackson Serializer for akka-persistence is also one of the pitfalls and this
```

> plugin provides an alternative by using a serializer that uses Circe.

Reviewer: Pls link to Circe here

Dangerous code for Jackson:

```scala
case class Message(animal: Animal) extends MySer

sealed trait Animal

final case class Lion(name: String) extends Animal
final case class Tiger(name: String) extends Animal
```

> To run this code, a lot of Jackson annotations should be added:

Reviewer: `To run this code` is a bit imprecise, this code _will run_ without these annotations ;)

```scala
case class Message(animal: Animal) extends MultiDocPrintService

@JsonTypeInfo(use = JsonTypeInfo.Id.NAME, property = "type")
@JsonSubTypes(
  Array(
    new JsonSubTypes.Type(value = classOf[Lion], name = "lion"),
    new JsonSubTypes.Type(value = classOf[Tiger], name = "tiger")))
sealed trait Animal

final case class Lion(name: String) extends Animal
final case class Tiger(name: String) extends Animal

```

Also if an object is defined:
```scala
case object Tick
```

There will not be exceptions during serialization but Jackson will create

> another instance of Tick instead of restoring Singleton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another instance of `Tick` instead of restoring the `object Tick`'s underlying singleton.
```

  - org.random.project.Data
```

> A `diff` command can be used to check the difference between the last version of a schema and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `diff` command can be used to check the difference between the version of a schema from `develop`/`main` branch and the
```

final case class Tiger(name: String) extends Animal
```

> To run this code a lot of Jackson annotations should be added:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run this code, a lot of Jackson annotations should be added:
```

[`CirceAkkaSerializer`](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceAkkaSerializer.scala) Scaladoc
and look at the [examples](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/tree/main/examples).

## Missing Codec registration

> If we forget to register a codec we would have problems in run time. To solve that we can use

Reviewer: `runtime` is typically written as a single world (at least from what I've seen in Scala contexts)

> annotation [`@org.virtuslab.ash.Serializer`](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/Serializer.scala)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
annotation [`@org.virtuslab.ash.Serializer`](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/Serializer.scala).
```

## Missing Codec registration

If a codec is not registered, there will be problems in a runtime. This will lead to a missing
codec for Akka serialization. It's one of the main caveats of using

> a serializer that depends on the compile-time. To solve that, an annotation

Reviewer: `depends on the compile-time`? 🤔

## Missing Codec registration

> If a codec is not registered there will be problems in a runtime. To solve that an annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a codec is not registered, there will be problems in a runtime. To solve that an annotation
```

Reviewer: Pls specify what problems, on the example of Circe serializer

For full list of sbt keys, check [`org.virtuslab.ash.AkkaSerializationHelperKeys`](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/sbt-akka-serialization-helper/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/AkkaSerializationHelperKeys.scala).

## Contributing Guide

> If you want to contribute to the ASH checkout our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to contribute to this project, see [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
```
